Miso Robotics
Flippy Lite can now be tested more rapidly in simulation with AWS RoboMaker.
Get news, papers, media and research delivered. Sign up for our free newsletters.
Stay up-to-date with news and resources you need to do your job. Research industry trends, compare companies and get weekly market intelligence with Robotics 24/7.
Simulation could be the secret sauce for getting robots to scale up for commercial kitchens. Miso Robotics Inc. today announced that it is working with Amazon Web Services Inc. to begin testing the software powering its Flippy 2 and Flippy Lite systems using AWS RoboMaker. The companies said this will enable Miso to run up to 50 simulations at once, helping it to turn prototypes into functional products at a faster rate.
“Integrating into AWS RoboMaker has been a gamechanger for us to scale our products and make sure the software and its updates are ready to deploy with units in the field,” said Chris Kruger, chief technology officer of Miso Robotics. “We went from running 12 simulations a month with single units to doing 100 in a night. By testing hundreds of configurations in parallel, we are able to save costs and develop products faster.”
Miso Robotics said it has been developing automation to solve some of the largest gaps in back-of-house restaurant operations. The company incorporates robotics, machine learning, computer vision, and data analytics into its products, which include the Flippy 2 frying robot, the CookRight coffee system, and the Sippy beverage dispenser.
AWS RoboMaker is a cloud-based simulation service that enables robotics developers to run, scale, and automate simulation without managing any infrastructure. RoboMaker Simulation WorldForge makes it possible to automatically create hundreds of pre-defined, randomized worlds that replicate real-world conditions without investing in engineering or managing world-generation infrastructure, said AWS.
Miso will be able to deploy Flippy 2 and Flippy Lite through testing configurations in the cloud, said AWS. The company said RoboMaker simplifies the process by validating the simulations to build a stable baseline for any new architecture or software updates.
In addition, comparing the performance of the units in a simulated role to the metrics of those in the field lets Miso track and address discrepancies to ensure stability, said the companies.
Kruger will present on “How Miso Robotics Built an AI-Enabled Robot Fry Cook” at Amazon re:MARS in Las Vegas on June 22, 2022. The breakout session will examine how the company overcame challenges and the methods it used to develop Flippy 2 and Flippy Lite from prototypes to products for the kitchens of the future.
Amazon re:MARS, which takes place from June 21 to 24, brings together thought leaders and technical experts who are building the future of artificial intelligence and machine learning, said AWS. Attendees can learn how to apply the same concepts and technologies to solve customer problems and initiate change within their organizations.
Pasadena-based Miso Robotics said it is applying real industry knowledge and the lessons it has learned over the past five years. The company is working with brand partners to evolve its products and drive consistency, increase productivity, reduce costs, and improve the overall dining experience.
Miso Robotics is primarily funded by individual investors. With nearly 20,000 shareholders, the company has raised more than $50 million in crowdfunding to date and is currently accepting investors in its Series E round, which began with a market valuation of $500 million.
Miso Robotics said it is a leader in developing restaurant automation.
Software-based GripperAI manages mixed picking through basic geometry
Safety, communication and motion control components enable smooth operation
North America’s largest robotics and automation event winds down
Automate’s largest day ever draws huge crowds to McCormick Place