Fleet management
Track every vehicle, streamline operations, and control fuel costs with Samsara telematics.
Complete visibility
Monitor your fleet with real-time GPS tracking.
Workforce productivity
Improve operational efficiency with easy-to-use workflows.
Risk management
Minimize risk and improve the driver experience with insights into vehicle security, ELD compliance, and fleet safety.
Energy efficiency
Improve fuel usage and electrification with data-driven insights.
Optimize fleet operations
Improve fleet efficiency and customer service with Samsara’s best-in-class GPS tracking, vehicle diagnostics, and routing and navigation.
GPS fleet tracking
Monitor your fleet, adapt to changing conditions, and keep drivers on schedule.
Vehicle diagnostics
Maximize vehicle uptime and minimize costs with real-time diagnostics.
Routing & dispatch
Reduce cost and improve safety, compliance, and customer satisfaction.
Commercial Navigation
Safely navigate with directions that account for vehicle restrictions.
Work smarter with intuitive, app-based workflows
Empower your team to work more efficiently with personalized mobile workflows for drivers, admins, and technicians.
Get started with Samsara apps
Protect your fleet with custom reports and actionable insights
Minimize risk and improve the driver experience with insights into vehicle safety, ELD compliance, and fleet security.
Get started with ELD compliance
Unlock fuel and energy insights across your fleet
Improve fuel efficiency and reduce operational costs with real-time idling alerts, insights into driver performance, and tools to build your EV strategy.
Optimize fuel usage
How customers win with fleet telematics
From cost savings to efficiency gains, learn how organizations are connecting their operations to drive ROI.
Read more stories
Best-in-class experiences<br>for every team 
Connect your fleet
Build together with powerful integrations and the largest partner ecosystem in the industry.
See all integrations
Keep up with our<br>latest news & updates
IDC study finds Samsara provides significant business value to customers
Discover data-driven insights on how Samsara delivers value across safety, cost savings, productivity, and more.
Learn more about fleet telematics
Fleet telematics combines GPS tracking, onboard vehicle diagnostics, and wireless connectivity to give fleet managers real-time visibility and control across their entire operation.
Samsara’s industry-leading Fleet Telematics solution enables organizations to track every vehicle, streamline operations, and control fuel costs. Samsara offers a complete suite of telematics solutions, including GPS Fleet Tracking, Routing & Dispatch, Commercial Navigation, Fleet Maintenance, ELD Compliance, FirstNet, Fuel & Energy Management, Electric Vehicle Management, OEM integrations, and more. All of this runs on the Samsara Connected Operations Platform, centralizing fleet data for every team across a fleet operation, from dispatch and safety to maintenance and compliance. Some capabilities Samsara Fleet Telematics offers include:
- Optimize fleet operations: Samsara unlocks real-time visibility across GPS tracking, vehicle diagnostics, and routing and navigation, improving fleet efficiency and customer service,
- Workforce productivity: Empower your team to work more efficiently with personalized mobile workflows for drivers, admins, and technicians.
- Risk management: Minimize risk and improve the driver experience with insights into vehicle security, ELD compliance, and fleet safety.
- Energy efficiency: Improve fuel efficiency, streamline electrification, and reduce operational costs with real-time idling alerts, insights into driver performance, and tools to build your EV strategy.
Products that transform your business
Connect your fleet, equipment, sites, and people on the open platform that users love.