SAVAGE, Minnesota, April 30, 2026 – Beckhoff Automation has closed the books on a successful 2025 financial year, increasing global revenue to €1.24 billion, with 6% growth over 2024.
“2025 was a solid financial year for Beckhoff,” summarizes Hans Beckhoff, Managing Director and Founder of the family-run, high-tech company. He continues, “We have left the impact of 2023 and the resulting downturn in 2024 behind us.” Global order intake increased over the course of 2025 and Beckhoff currently assumes that the economy will experience a new growth phase two years after the start of the current economic crisis experienced in many areas of the world.
Financial results in the U.S. were similarly strong with Beckhoff Automation LLC reporting $133.5 million in revenue in 2025, a 10.1% increase over 2024. “After weathering the global challenges of 2024, our order intake and revenue grew impressively in 2025,” says Kevin Barker, President, Beckhoff USA. “Our technology, approach, and culture are really resonating with customers across all industries. The tremendous dedication and hard work of our U.S. and global teams is clearly having an impact. Their efforts have fueled our growth as they continue to deliver a world-class customer experience.”
PC-based control transforms automation across industries
For 46 years, the family-owned company has won customers over with the continuous development of its hardware and software portfolio for PC-based automation technology. The fully integrated product range forms the basis for universal, industry-independent automation solutions that can be flexibly adapted to the requirements of a wide range of industries. “We are delighted that our software-based automation philosophy continues to gain significance on the market and is being used in more and more applications around the world,” says Hans Beckhoff. He continues, “It is clear that our newer product lines, such as the MX-System for control cabinet-free automation, are also received with high demand from customers, thereby contributing to our company's growth.”
80 million euros invested for R&D
As in previous years, Beckhoff invested around 80 million euros in research and development in 2025 and plans to continue investing at the same rate in 2026. As a financially independent company, Beckhoff lays the foundations for driving new technological innovations with a long-term view. “By merging information technology and automation and implementing the latest hardware and software technologies in our products, we continue to provide the industry with pioneering and powerful automation solutions,” states Hans Beckhoff. He explains that current developments, particularly in AI, are leading to new features, tool chains, and business models, which Beckhoff presented at this year's Hannover Messe trade show in Germany.
In-house expertise and cultivating new talent
Beckhoff's stable and highly qualified workforce is key to assuring that the company’s products are a success in terms of their development, manufacturing, and sales. Currently, the family company employs 5,450 workers worldwide, of which 2,000 are engineers. Beckhoff is active in over 75 countries, with 23 branches in Germany and 41 international subsidiaries and representative offices.
Beckhoff places great importance on training and educating their talented employees to consistently meet the continuous need for professional development and highly qualified specialists. With its diverse range of internships, apprenticeships, and four bachelor's degree programs in Germany, Beckhoff is focused on developing young people with a passion for technology, investing in the future of the region. In addition, Beckhoff USA continues to strengthen and expand its own programs such as the new graduate training program and internships that provide cohorts professional development and education opportunities at locations across the U.S. every year.
Outlook for 2026 financial year
Beckhoff expects to see strong development over the 2026 financial year. “Since October 2025, we have noted that the trend has been positive again, with strong progression in the first quarter of 2026 as we seem to have gotten past the international economic crisis,” reports Hans Beckhoff. “However, the current global political situation still harbors uncertainties for the 2026 forecast.” Overall, Beckhoff is nevertheless optimistic about the future and continues to focus on sustainable business development through its powerful PC-based automation technology for machine builders, system integrators, end user manufacturers, and other high-tech companies.
- 
                            04.30.2026 Hans Beckhoff, Founder and Managing Director of Beckhoff Automation: “We develop high-tech products because we have a calling to do so; with our automation technology, we enable the global machine and system engineering industry to solve today's complex control problems and shape the industry of tomorrow.”
		Shane Novacek
                        Beckhoff Automation LLC
				                     
						
						13130 Dakota Avenue
						
					
			Savage, MN 55378 
					United States
                      
                        
                          +1 952 890-0000
                        
                        
                        beckhoffnews@beckhoff.com
                        
  
	                    www.beckhoff.com/en-us/