Updated August 30 2026 - 3:33am, first published 3:29am
Updated August 30 2026 - 3:33am, first published 3:29am
The controversial US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency is set to deploy robot dogs. Photo: AP PHOTO
The controversial US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency plans to deploy dog-like robots under an anticipated deal with a leading global robotics company, according to government contract award documents.
Massachusetts-based Boston Dynamics is expected to be awarded the $US2 million ($A2.8 million) contract before the end of this year, according to a recent notification by the US Department of Homeland Security (DHS).
The remote-controlled robots are intended for situational awareness and risk assessment, according to the justification for the acquisition by the department, which oversees the activities of ICE.
Their use will enhance the authorities' ability to respond to incidents "involving dangerous, confined, unstable, or difficult-to-access areas," it said.
Nothing is known about any potential attack capability of the robot canines. The standard SPOT robots are fitted with a high-resolution 360-degree all-round camera, ultra-bright LED light and a light detection system.
Deportation raids carried out by ICE officers are part of President Donald Trump's strict immigration policy.
In January, the agency came under heavy criticism after federal officers shot and killed US citizens Renée Good and Alex Pretti on a public street in Minneapolis.
There have since been other fatal incidents, for example in Houston in Texas and in the state of Maine. More recently, the agency also caused a stir with its planned procurement of electric-shock gloves.
It is not unusual for authorities and security forces to make use of four-legged robots. Dog-like robots from the same company have already been deployed at the German port of Hamburg to inspect the safety of bridges.
Similar robots can also be used in the event of bomb threats or other dangerous situations.