Fast, Efficient Processing, From Real-Time Control to AI Reasoning
As robotics evolve from programmed automation to autonomous physical AI systems, robots require a new class of compute that combines AI reasoning, real-time control, sensor processing, deterministic execution, and safety.
AMD delivers the industry's broadest embedded portfolio, from high-performance x86 processors that power robot reasoning and planning, to adaptive computing that enables sensor fusion, real-time networking, motor control, and functional safety. Combined with open software and developer platforms, AMD helps accelerate robotics development and deployment across many applications, including industrial automation, logistics, and healthcare.
Leadership AI Compute
High-performance CPU, GPU and AI acceleration for perception, reasoning, planning, and multi-agent AI.
Secure, Deterministic, Real-time Control
Deliver precise motion, functional safety, and low-latency control for robots operating in dynamic environments.
Open & Scalable
Scale across robot architectures with a broad portfolio of AMD x86 embedded processors, adaptive SoCs, FPGAs, SOMs, and open software.
Applications
Only AMD Delivers the Complete Autonomous Robotics Solution from Body to Brain
Brain
Perception and Reasoning
AMD embedded APUs can enable perception pipelines and generative AI while delivering the reliability and longevity required for robots and autonomous industrial vehicles. Combine real-time CPU control, fast GPU inference, and agentic performance, and replace fragmented architectures with a single Kria™ AI SOM.
Spine
Industrial Automation
AMD adaptive SoCs and FPGAs allow the distribution of robotic workloads into the best architecture for your needs and to manage robot safety and security.
Joints
Motor Control & Predictive Maintenance
AMD adaptive SoCs and FPGAs are used for deterministic real-time control of robot arms and joints.
Sensing
Vision AI, LiDAR, & Sensors
AMD embedded APU, adaptive SoC, and FPGA products accelerate machine vision, LiDAR, and real-time sensor processing to help improve perception, extend detection range, and enable safe autonomous operation.
Portfolio
AMD Ryzen™ AI Embedded X100 Series Processors
Highly integrated x86 embedded processors with leadership CPU, GPU, and AI architecture optimized for real-time AI, robotics, automation, and intelligent embedded systems
AMD Ryzen™ AI Embedded P100 Series Processors
Scalable embedded x86 processors with virtualized, optimized architecture for deterministic AI, DSP, and control workloads in rugged industrial platforms
AMD Spartan™ UltraScale+™ FPGAs
Deliver low-latency sensor fusion, multi-axis motor control, AI acceleration, secure power-efficient processing for autonomous systems, enabling real-time perception and actuation
AMD Versal™ AI Edge Series Gen 2
Integrates sensor processing, AI inference, and deterministic motor control for safe, low-latency robotics, enabling autonomous navigation, sensor fusion, and industrial automation applications
AMD Zynq™ UltraScale + Adaptive SoCs
Combines Arm® processors and AMD FPGA fabric to enable real-time sensor fusion, AI acceleration, and deterministic motor control, supporting robots and other autonomous systems
AMD Artix™ UltraScale + FPGAs
Enable deterministic motor control, real-time sensor fusion, machine vision, and hardware acceleration, delivering low-latency processing, flexible connectivity, and power-efficient performance for advanced robotics and industrial automation
Partner Spotlight: Generative Bionics
Building Humanoids That Can React to Touch
Generative Bionics is leveraging an open and scalable robotics platform from AMD to build humanoid robots that can sense and react to their environment in real-time. The company's GENE-01 robot takes human-machine intelligence to the next level with sensing, decision-making, and action that provides a glimpse into the future of autonomous robotics. AMD has invested in the company to help it scale toward industrial production, expanding real-world deployments across many industries.
Case Studies
SICK AG Powers 2D LiDAR Sensor with AMD Adaptive SoCs
STW delivers AI-enabled safety features in industrial equipment powered by AMD
Solectrix Case Study
Robotec.ai Powers Open-Source Digital Twin Platform with AMD Kria™ SOM
Get Started
AMD Kria AI Robotics Developer Platform
Develop, simulate, and deploy real-time physical AI solutions.
Kria KR260 Robotics Starter Kit
Out-of-the-box adaptive SOMs for robotics and the intelligent factory using ROS 2.
Robotics Partners
AMD is Committed to Building a Broad and Open Robotics Ecosystem
Here are some of the partners helping to drive this innovation.
Support and Resources
Documentation Portal
Robust online search and navigation of HTML-based technical content.
Training Courses
Access our library of training materials across a variety of subjects.
Get in Touch
Contact an AMD sales representative.