AMD Kria AI solutions combine the Kria AI SOM, robotics developer platform and open software ecosystem to accelerate physical AI.
AMD, at its AMD Advancing AI 2026 conference, have introduced AMD Kria™ AI Solutions, designed to help developers and customers prototype, build and rapidly deploy next-generation autonomous robotics and physical AI systems.
The portfolio includes AMD Kria AI system-on-modules (SOMs) and robotics carrier card, powered by AMD Ryzen™ AI Embedded X100 Series processors, and the AMD Kria AI Robotics Developer Platform, the first open, turnkey integrated platform for autonomous robotics combining heterogeneous CPU, GPU, NPU and FPGA compute.
It extends AMD robotics capabilities from the “robot body” to the “robot brain”, bringing AI perception, reasoning, and agentic decision-making and control together on a single platform optimised for stringent power, thermal and latency requirements.
The Robotics Industry is Moving at Pace
The robotics industry is evolving beyond deterministic automation to intelligent, autonomous systems that require AI perception, reasoning, and real-time decision-making and control.
Developers need fully integrated platforms that simplify system design while accelerating deployment of increasingly complex physical AI systems.
AMD Kria AI SOMs feature the Ryzen AI Embedded X100 series with up to 16 “Zen 5” CPU cores for real-time control, an AMD RDNA™ 3.5 iGPU for immersive graphics and a power-efficient NPU to deliver low-latency deterministic performance in a modular, production platform. It’s supported by an open software ecosystem that enables developers to build and deploy physical AI systems without vendor lock-in.
Salil Raje, SVP and general manager, AMD Embedded, explains, “For decades, AMD adaptive computing technologies have powered the sensing, safety and real-time control systems at the heart of industrial and surgical robots.” He comments:
“Today, we’re extending that leadership from the robot body to the robot brain with the AMD Kria AI SOM and Robotics Developer Platform and we’re enabling customers to build more intelligent physical AI systems, bringing AI perception, reasoning, agentic decision-making and control together on the first open, turnkey integrated platform for autonomous robotics.”
AMD Kria AI Robotics Developer Platform
The AMD Kria AI Robotics Developer Platform is designed to provide a scalable path from development to deployment. The fully integrated platform for agentic robotics includes the Kria AI SOM and robotics carrier card, evaluation kit, robotics software suite and validated reference designs.
The Kria AI SOM heterogeneous compute architecture powers the robot brain by enabling AI perception, reasoning, autonomous decision-making and action on a single platform, supported by the AMD Robotics Software Suite, an open, portable software stack built on AMD ROCm™ software and the ROS 2 robotics framework that is optimised for end-to-end development.
Together with AMD adaptive SoCs and FPGAs (Field-Programmable Gate Arrays), they provide a complete and scalable foundation for accelerating the deployment of next-generation robotics and physical AI systems from concept to production.
*FPGAs: A chip that can be adapted – the hardware logic can be rewritten and reprogrammed by the user even after manufacturing